---
type: docs
title: "Validate"
linkTitle: "Validate"
no_list: true
gitUrl: "https://github.com/pip-services3-gox/pip-services3-commons-gox"
description: >
    The Validate package contains interfaces and classes that can be used to create custom validation rules; such as rules based on combinations of the logical operators AND, OR and NOT.
 
---
---

<div class="module-body"> 

### Constants

#### [ValidationResultType](validation_result_type)
Types of validation results generated by validation schemas.

<br>

### Interfaces

#### [ISchema](ischema)
Validation schema interface.

#### [ISchemaBase](ischema_base)
Interface with a method to perform a validation.

#### [IValidationRule](ivalidation_rule)
Interface for validation rules.

Validation rule used to validate one or multiple values
against complex rules like: value is in range,
one property is less than another property,
enforce enumerated values and more.

This interface allows to implement custom rules.

<br>

### Types

#### [AndRule](and_rule)
Validation rule to combine rules with AND logical operation.
When all rules return no errors, then this rule also returns no errors.
When one of the rules returns errors, then the rules return all errors.

#### [ArraySchema](array_schema)
Schema to validate arrays.

#### [AtLeastOneExistsRule](at_least_one_exists_rule)
Validation rule that checks that at least one of the object properties is not nil.

#### [ExcludedRule](excluded_rule)
Validation rule used to check that a value is excluded from the list of constants.

#### [FilterParamsSchema](filter_params_schema)
Schema used to validate [FilterParams](../data/filter_params)

#### [IncludedRule](included_rule)
Validation rule used to check that a value is included into the list of constants.

#### [MapSchema](map_schema)
Schema to validate maps.

#### [NotRule](not_rule)
Validation rule used to negate another rule.

#### [ObjectComparator](object_comparator)
Helper class used to perform comparison operations over arbitrary values.

#### [ObjectSchema](object_schema)
Schema used to validate user defined objects.

#### [OnlyOneExistsRule](only_one_exists_rule)
Validation rule that checks that exactly one of the object properties is not nil.

#### [OrRule](or_rule)
Validation rule to combine rules with OR logical operation.

#### [PagingParamsSchema](paging_params_schema)
Schema to validate [PagingParams](../data/paging_params).

#### [ProjectionParamsSchema](projection_params_schema)
Schema to validate [ProjectionParams](../data/projection_params)

#### [PropertiesComparisonRule](properties_comparison_rule)
Validation rule that compares two object properties.

#### [PropertySchema](property_schema)
Schema to validate object properties

#### [Schema](schema)
Basic schema that validates values against a set of validation rules.
This schema is used as a basis for specific schemas to validate 
objects, project properties, arrays and maps.

#### [TokenizedPagingParamsShema](tokenized_paging_params_schema)
The TokenizedPagingParamsSchema class allows you to create schemas to validate TokenizedPagingParams.

#### [ValidationException](validation_exception)
Errors in schema validation.
Validation errors are usually generated based on [ValidationResult](validation_result).
If using strict mode, warnings will also raise validation exceptions.

#### [ValidationResult](validation_result)
Result generated by a schema validation

#### [ValueComparisonRule](value_comparison_rule)
Validation rule that compares a value to a constant.

</div>

