---
type: docs
title: "ValidationResult"
linkTitle: "ValidationResult"
gitUrl: "https://github.com/pip-services3-dart/pip-services3-commons-dart"
description: >
   Result generated by a schema validation.
---

### Description

The ValidationResult class provides a representation of the result generated by a schema validation. 

### Constructors
Creates a new instance of a validation ressult and sets its values.

See [ValidationResultType](../validation_result_type)

> ValidationResult([String path, [ValidationResultType](../validation_result_type) type, String code, String message, dynamic expected, dynamic actual])

- **path**: String - dot notation path of the validated element.
- **type**: [ValidationResultType](../validation_result_type) - type of the validation result: Information, Warning, or Error.
- **code**: String - error code.
- **message**: String - human readable message.
- **expected**: dynamic - value expected by a schema validation.
- **actual**: dynamic - actual value found by a schema validation.


### Instance methods

#### getActual
Gets the actual value found by a schema validation.

> dynamic getActual()

- **returns**: dynamic - actual value.


#### getCode
Gets the error code.

> String getCode()

- **returns**: String - error code


#### getExpected
Gets the value expected by a schema validation.

> dynamic getExpected()

- **returns**: dynamic - expected value.


#### getMessage
Gets the human readable message.

> String getMessage()

- **returns**: String - result message.


#### getPath
Gets the dot notation path of the validated element.

> String getPath()

- **returns**: String - path of the validated element.


#### getType
Gets the dot notation path of the validated element.

> [ValidationResultType](../validation_result_type) getType()

- **returns**: [ValidationResultType](../validation_result_type) - type of the validation result.
