---
type: docs
title: "ValidationResult"
linkTitle: "ValidationResult"
gitUrl: "https://github.com/pip-services4/pip-services4-java/tree/main/pip-services4-data-java"
description: >
   Result generated by a schema validation.
---

### Description

The ValidationResult class provides a representation of the result generated by a schema validation. 

### Constructors
Creates a new instance of a validation ressult and sets its values.
See [ValidationResultType](../validation_result_type)

> `public` ValidationResult(String path, [ValidationResultType](../validation_result_type), String code, String message, Object expected, Object actual)

- **path**: String - dot notation path of the validated element.
- **type**: [ValidationResultType](../validation_result_type) - type of the validation result: Information, Warning, or Error.
- **code**: String - error code.
- **message**: String - human readable message.
- **expected**: Object - value expected by a schema validation.
- **actual**: Object - actual value found by a schema validation.


### Instance methods

#### getActual
Gets the actual value found by a schema validation.

> `public` Object getActual()

- **returns**: Object - actual value.


#### getCode
Gets the error code.

> `public` String getCode()

- **returns**: String - error code


#### getExpected
Gets the value expected by a schema validation.

> `public` Object getExpected()

- **returns**: Object - expected value.


#### getMessage
Gets the human readable message.

> `public` String getMessage()

- **returns**: String - result message.


#### getPath
Gets the dot notation path of the validated element.

> `public` String getPath()

- **returns**: String - path of the validated element.


#### getType
Gets the dot notation path of the validated element.

> `public` [ValidationResultType](../validation_result_type) getType()

- **returns**: [ValidationResultType](../validation_result_type) - type of the validation result.

