---
type: docs
title: "ValidationResult"
linkTitle: "ValidationResult"
gitUrl: "https://github.com/pip-services3-go/pip-services3-commons-go"
description: >
   Result generated by a schema validation
---

### Description

The ValidationResult class provides a representation of the result generated by a schema validation.

### Constructors
Creates a new instance of a validation ressult and sets its values.
See [ValidationResultType](../validation_result_type)

> NewValidationResult(path string, typ [ValidationResultType](../validation_result_type), code string, message string, expected interface{}, actual interface{}) [*ValidationResult]()

- **path**: string - a dot notation path of the validated element.
- **typ**: [ValidationResultType](../validation_result_type) - a type of the validation result: Information, Warning, or Error.
- **code**: string - an error code.
- **message**: string - a human readable message.
- **expected**: interface{} - an value expected by schema validation.
- **actual**: interface{} - an actual value found by schema validation.


### Methods

#### Actual
Gets the actual value found by schema validation.

> (c [*ValidationResult]()) Actual() interface{}

- **returns**: interface{} - the actual value.


#### Code
Gets the error code.

> (c [*ValidationResult]()) Code() string

- **returns**: string - the error code


#### Expected
Gets the value expected by schema validation.

> (c [*ValidationResult]()) Expected() interface{}

- **returns**: interface{} - the expected value.


#### Message
Gets the human readable message.

> (c [*ValidationResult]()) Message() string

- **returns**: string - the result message.


#### Path
Gets dot notation path of the validated element.

> (c [*ValidationResult]()) Path() string

- **returns**: string - the path of the validated element.


#### getType
Gets dot notation path of the validated element.

> (c [*ValidationResult]()) Type() [ValidationResultType](../validation_result_type)

- **returns**: [ValidationResultType](../validation_result_type) - the type of the validation result.
