---
type: docs
title: "ValidationResult"
linkTitle: "ValidationResult"
gitUrl: "https://github.com/pip-services3-nodex/pip-services3-commons-nodex"
description: >
   Result generated by a schema validation
---

### Description

The ValidationResult class provides a representation of the result generated by a schema validation.

### Constructors
Creates a new instance of a validation ressult and sets its values.
See [ValidationResultType](../validation_result_type)

> `public` constructor(path: string = null, type: [ValidationResultType](../validation_result_type) = null, code: string = null, message: string = null,  expected: any = null, actual: any = null)

- **path**: string - a dot notation path of the validated element.
- **type**: [ValidationResultType](../validation_result_type) = null - a type of the validation result: Information, Warning, or Error.
- **code**: string - an error code.
- **message**: string - a human readable message.
- **expected**: any - an value expected by schema validation.
- **actual**: any - an actual value found by schema validation.


### Instance methods

#### getActual
Gets the actual value found by schema validation.

> `public` getActual(): any

- **returns**: any - the actual value.


#### getCode
Gets the error code.

> `public` getCode(): string

- **returns**: string - the error code


#### getExpected
Gets the value expected by schema validation.

> `public` getExpected(): any

- **returns**: any - the expected value.


#### getMessage
Gets the human readable message.

> `public` getMessage(): string

- **returns**: string - the result message.


#### getPath
Gets dot notation path of the validated element.

> `public` getPath(): string

- **returns**: string - the path of the validated element.


#### getType
Gets dot notation path of the validated element.

> `public` getType(): [ValidationResultType](../validation_result_type)

- **returns**: [ValidationResultType](../validation_result_type) - the type of the validation result.


#### toJSON
 Returns the validation result in JSON format.

> `public` toJSON(): object
